Hey friends, summers longer days
and slower pace. Invite us
to pick up a book,
follow our questions and try
our hand at something new.
The work of modern software
developers is evolving in ways
that are both challenging and
rewarding. As a developer, it's
essential that you cultivate a
security mindset and to help
we've put together a collection
of information, security books, podcasts,
blogs, and hands on exercises
recommended by Vira coders across
our development security and product
teams from a just published
page Turner to classic frack
articles. There's something here for
everyone who's interested in becoming
more security minded. So dip
your toes in or take
a deep dive visit www
dot Vira code that's V
E R a code.com/reading that's
Vira code.com/reading. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. In
fact, this is episode 700.
I have to thank you
for that guest. There have
been 700 episodes of Hansel
minutes, which is divided by
52. I don't know a
big number. It's like 12
plus years. 13 years. Congratulations.
Thank you very much. My
guest today on episode 700
is my wife Mo. Hello,
Mo. Hey Scott, how are
you? I'm very well. I'm
sure you're thrilled as always
to be on the show.
You cared deeply about the
show. So with no hint
of sarcasm, like why are
we doing this? Why are
we clearly, we need a
weekly Mowen Scott show. People
say that they only listened
to the show. Just waiting
for you to show up
every few years. It's a
compliment. Thank you very much.
How's it going? You tolerate
me doing this show. I
realize, and I appreciate that.
I'd said pleasure. Has it
been a problem at all?
Scheduling the show. You really
don't have to just do
anything other than keep the
boys from making noises for
half an hour. Yeah, not
a whole lot on my
part, except for that couple
of times a decade or
so and money for gas,
but I'm know you do
all the heavy lifting in
that one. So nice job.
All right, cool. He yesterday,
when was our anniversary? Two
days ago, dude, you should
know this. Come on man.
Two days ago. Happy anniversary.
Thank you very much. You
two coming up on almost
20 years. I'm happy to
be renewed for another season.
Is that true? 25? It
does feel like trends. If
you roll up, if you
round up, it could be
up to near 25 now.
Yeah, almost 20 years. Good
Lord. That's a long time.
It was fast. Some people
had asked on Twitter, how
you were doing. If you
go out and Google for
Hanselman in cancer, of course
you had cancer a number
of years ago. And actually
we were diagnosed this month.
It's been what? Seven years?
Yeah, 2012. It's kind of
crazy when that comes up.
It's like, wow, that was
some journey, huh? Yeah. Yeah.
You can check out our
cancer year on the other
podcast that I used to
do with Rob Connery called
this developer's life. If you
go to this developer's life.com
episode was called cancer. And
it was actually a diary
over the course of the
year, because if I recall
and correct me, if I
get this wrong tiny wife,
you wanted to keep a
diary, but you didn't really
have the energy to do
the writing part of the
diary. So instead you just
recorded it on your phone
and you had like, I
feel like this and we
go for walks and we
talk about it. So over
the course of the year,
as diagnosis and treatment and
on, you know, surgery and
all that kind of stuff
happened, we kind of complained
to each other. And then
we tied that into like
a single, a single podcast
episode. Yeah. It totally helps
to have a, an engineer
for a husband who knows
how to put that together
because I, I wouldn't have
been able to do that
on my own as far
as documenting it. So it
helps to have your expertise.
Cause you were able to
facilitate that in a way.
I love that. And the
one time that we're recording
you use expertise to prefer
it. Anything, anything that I
do that's right. You are
so wholly unimpressed with whatever
it is. Took the time
when we're not recording. I
don't think you've ever said
anything. Even remotely close to
expertise. And actually that's a
good point. We should mention
what, what you do cause
you're actually on your second
career. What did you do
before? Correct. Tyler's in business
work for a nonprofit and
now I'm a nurse. You
see how understated you are.
You had an MBA, you
have a international business degree
at green French, you speak
four languages. You were running
a finance department for nonprofit
in one day. You just
decided to be a nurse.
Why? Well, I mean, it
wasn't quite that abrupt in
that sudden, right. But something
that I always wanted to
do. Yeah. 10 years, you
never mentioned nursing. We talked
about going into some kind
of a people without borders,
kind of a thing. People,
it couldn't be doctors. We
weren't doctors. So exactly as
volunteers, without borders, just regular
people with no borders. Right?
Yeah. So, but I mean,
look, it's just a way
of giving back, right? When
you have been given so
much and I always felt
like it was a privileged
life we do that we've
had. And so I was
wanted to give back, but
I mean first, so I
had to get a job
and take care of my
family because you know, you
don't always know who you're
going to marry and you
always want to be independent
as a woman and be
able to take care of
yourself and your family. And
my, my family is still
in Zimbabwe at the time.
And in fact, some of
them still are there now
and wanting to get a
job and be able to
send money home. And so
that was the plan was
do the quickest thing that
would get opportunity to send
money home and up as
the business life, When I
married you, you had already
had your master's degree and
you were working and doing
your own thing. And now
you're doing an entirely different
career. It's it might be
interesting for people to hear
that, that you're, it is
in the back of your
head that you want your
own career and your own
thing. So that God forbid
I'm not around or we
aren't around or whatever you
are your own person and
you're doing your own thing
and you're capable of doing
your own thing. Yeah. I
mean, absolutely. I think it's
important for the boys and
you know, not having any
daughters, my life is a
little different than a Bay,
right? I'm surrounded by men
in my house, but I
want the boys, just people
are men. They'll become men.
I'm working on it, dude,
I'm working on it. They're
not men yet. Clearly the
toilet. I know I'll have
the time, but in time
they'll get there. I hope.
And I want them to
grow up knowing that women
are capable individuals and can
take care of themselves, can
have goals, can exceed those
holes, et cetera, et cetera,
you know? And you, you
do a lot to support
that, of course, because you
always make it very clear.
Like it's even when I
wasn't working, when I was
taking care of the boys,
that was what we decided
on was first my choice
to stay home for a
while with the boys, when
they were younger, you never
made it. You'd never say
things like it's my paycheck
or it's my house. You
know, even though you were
making the mortgage payment. So
it always felt like it
was seen. So that was
of Yeah. At the time.
Yeah. But this was the
thing though. We always decided
that that was for, for
the time that you did
it, your job and while
it's not a job that
generates a paycheck, it is
an enormous amount of work
to be a homemaker. And
we, and this was an
agreement that we made and
that's, that's an interesting thing
to mention as well. Over
the last 20 years when
we started, I hadn't graduated
college yet you had a
masters. I had not yet
finished my undergraduate. My undergrad
took 11 years. Right? Yeah.
I love how you smile.
You think that's hilarious forever
Because we're recording. I'm going
to compliment you on your
tenacity in sticktuitiveness. And when
we stop recording, you will
be like, it'd be raped
me for my laziness. I
like to give her the
program 11 years. Yeah. So
I finished my bachelor's in
2003. And while I was
going to school, you were
supporting me. And then when
you decided to go into
nursing, that was a plan.
And this is really a
big thing. It's a theme
in, in my blog and
my podcast and our conversations
is this notion of intentionality.
Yeah. Don't let your life
happen by default. And when
you sat down and said,
I want to be a
nurse, you were like, okay,
if I recall, this is
my recollection, which may not
be clear. It was basically
you came and you said,
buckle up. This is going
to, it's going to be
pretty it's verbatim. Yeah, that
was roughly, that's what you
said. But it was like,
this is going to get
crazy. I'm going to be
going to school. And you
were, I mean, you were
basically checked out till 2:00 AM
every night, seven days a
week studying, if you weren't
downstairs, studying you were upstairs
studying. But that wasn't a
thing that just happened, like
that was planned. Well, I
mean, it was, and I
think this is definitely recollection
kind of softening the blow
a little bit because it
is a game changer when
your spouse comes in and
says, Hey, I want to
do this. And you're like,
Whoa. You know, when did
that become a user? That,
yeah, exactly. And even now
you're like nursing, you know,
I didn't know you wanted
to do that. Yeah. It
is hard. But again, it's
all about communication. Right. And
being part of a team
and saying, Hey, this is
important to me. And if,
if for whatever reason, I
didn't communicate that or convey
that my bad, you know,
I think you did. I
mean, it matters now that
we're people without borders. No,
I'm talking about people without
borders. Yes. Let's make t-shirts
but I'm talking beforehand because
I think that's what is,
is a challenge and a
marriage and you and I
have talked about this from
a personality point of view,
just the other day you
were saying with the boys
that when we have a
plan in place, we might
decide something as basic as,
okay, we're going to get
up and then go have
bagels at our favorite bagel
store. They will shop and
then do a, B, C,
D E. And if you
get that in your head
on Friday night, for instance,
saying, okay, that's what our
Saturday is going to look
like. Our tomorrow's going to
look like, and then I
wake up on Saturday morning
and say, okay, forget that
idea. Here's what we're going
to do. Instead of going
to the beach, you know,
you said that the jar
is you find a jar
and you find that it
is not the expected plan.
So it's, you've got to
shift, you know? So that
was a little bit like
that. And I want him
to go back to school
as a bit of a
shift in the marriage and
the plan it's like, wait,
where is this coming from?
But to be able to,
to keep communicating, to be
able to keep having the
dialogue and say, you know
what really matters? And for
you, I mean, you came
around and then you, you
became a cheerleader, you know,
okay, well, if we are
going to do this, let's
do this. We go to
nursing. Stuff's being more, goes
to nursing school, but we
go to nursing school, et
cetera, et cetera. And that
was huge. And you, you
bring up a really important
point is this notion of
expectations. We've always said that
in a marriage, you have,
you come in with expectations
and you have daily expectations,
weekly, yearly expectations, right. And
when an expectation isn't met
there's fear and uncertainty and
doubt and anger because it's
like suddenly the rug has
been pulled out from underneath
you. And it can be
something as simple as recording
of the olive garden. No,
we're not. We're going to
Chipotle. Ah, and it's like,
Whoa, I'm angry suddenly because
something has changed or it
can be, Hey, I thought
you were gonna work at
this job. Or I thought
you were going to watch
the kids. And now we're
moving to Spain. Like what,
what happened there? And you
got absorbed the initial upsetness.
Yeah. The initial context switch,
I think, was the term
that we used it. And
then you gotta get over
it and say, all right,
this is the change. This
is. Yeah. And I find
that, you know, sometimes I
do that a lot. I
mean, something as basic as
conversation where it depends who
I'm talking to. Like if
I'm talking to my sister,
you know, we can talk
about four or five different
things almost at the same
time and I can pick
it up. We can be
talking about the kids. We're
talking about our work. We're
talking about I'll I'll I'll
mom. And I'll say, you
know, hold that thought, which,
you know, we have, we
have a phrase, we just
say, put a comma. There
is the equivalent of white
presets on English thing. That's
the English translation of what
we do say, which has
put a common there and
then I'll jump to something
else and I'll come back
and I'll pick it up.
You know, that can be
hard to do in a
relationship if you're not sort
of speak into the person's
language. And so I think
you and I have, it's
not perfect by any stretch
of the imagination, but we
continue to work at it.
We continue to say, okay,
this is what I'm going
to do. And, and a
couple of times you've called
me on it and said,
well, you just skipped steps
here. You went from step
one to step seven. What
happened in between? And then
I'm like, Oh shoot. I
did. He made a lot
of assumptions, Assumptions. I, I,
in my head, I walked
through it methodically and it's
like, okay, I've got to
call back and bring you
up to speed. Okay. So
this is where I am
now, which is great for
me. Cause like I'm, I'm
I'm homemaker. Okay. And I
think your thought was, Oh,
you're going to go back
and work for the nonprofit
or you're going to go
back and work in the
office. Okay. So, and then
I went from, I'm a
homemaker now to, okay. So
I want to play to
nursing school. Okay. For me,
that's, that's sort of a
logical thing. Cause I've been
thinking about this in my
head for you. This was
like, wait, where, you know,
so once I went back
and I said, Hey, listen,
I have always wanted to
be someone involved in healthcare.
I didn't even necessarily, always
want to be a nurse
nurse, but I always knew
I wanted to be in
healthcare in some capacity. Right.
So that's new information for
you. Oh, I didn't realize
that. Okay. So why now?
Well, I want to do
it now because our boys
are older. Now they're more
independent. You know, I'm not
nursing for instance, then I
think diapers, et cetera, et
cetera. So the older they
get, the easier it is
for them to sort of
live their own lives. They're
not as dependent on me
and on you, you know,
It does think. So that
means that we should have
a plan. The boys will
be out of, out of
school and in college, in
the next seven to eight
years. That's crazy talk right
there. But yeah, it is,
it is totally nuts. Cause
I know people who know
us who remember us carrying
them around. And I remember,
I always remind them. I
remember when you didn't exist,
so don't talk back, right?
What are we doing after
that? Right. Have we even
got an empty nest plan?
Do people do that? Is
that a thing? We should
have an expectation, you know
how, when you're dating and
then, you know, maybe you're
going to move in with
the person you're going to
get married, but then you
discover that they're they do
something gross with their toothbrush
or they don't flush the
toilet or you know, whatever.
And then it's like, is
that a deal breaker? Yeah.
Right. And maybe you don't
want pets or maybe you
do want pets or maybe
they're a vegan or whatever,
like a marriage or a
relationship is a series of
potential deal, breakers and accept
as not deal breakers. And
then you move on to
the next thing. What if
we find out that you
want to go and do
salsa dancing for the next
20 years after the boys
have left as talented as
I am, you know? And
I want to play Xbox.
Yeah. What's a, how do
we solve that? Well, I
mean, I'm curious to hear
your take on that. It's
we need to do it
on a live on a
podcast. I was just throwing
out the idea that maybe
we need to do some
planning. Yeah. I mean, well,
that's a given, I don't
know. I was hoping we
would hang out a hangout
and I don't know, do
yoga and go with the
senior center. I don't know.
I see you've given it
a lot of bud here.
I think the point is
to get the boys out
of the house and then
chill. Yeah. Right. The goal
is to hang out. Right?
Isn't that just the goal
in life. Hey, friends as
a software engineer, chances are
you've crossed paths with Mongo
DB. At some point, whether
you're building an app for
millions of users or just
figuring out your side hustle
as the most popular non-relational
database, Mongo DB is intuitive
and incredibly easy for development
teams to use. Now with
Mongo DB Atlas, you can
take advantage of Mongo DBS,
flexible document data model as
a fully automated cloud service.
Mongo DB Atlas handles all
the costly database operations and
admin tasks that you'd rather
not spend time on like
security, high availability, data, recovery
monitoring, and elastic scaling. Try
Mongo DB Atlas for free
today. Visit Mongo db.com/cloud that's
Mongo, db.com/cloud to learn more
Well. But I mean, one
of the issues that we're
facing, which I think most
couples don't face is that
I am relatively new in
my career. Right. So you've
been doing this for what?
Over 20 years, I don't
know, at least 25 and
20, excuse me. I stand
corrected people 25 years, been
a nurse for five years.
And that goes right. Well,
mostly new. You're like a
senior now. No, but when
I'm talking about though, is
from a career point of
view, most people when they
talk about a career it's
30 years, right? So you're
talking about retiring. Yes they
do. They do. That's the
thing, but I'm not even
sort of halfway into my,
my career so to speak,
you know? So, so it
does create a bit of
an unusual challenge that I
think most people, by the
time they're 45, I'm not
saying I'm just five years
old in my job, you
know, whatever my job is
The question. So do you
want to do this until
you're 65? Yeah. I mean
that's so that's, that's the
kind of thing that I
was saying that it's about
communication and having the conversations
because you're already, you're clearly
telling me that you just
wanna, you know, float around
and be a bum is
what I heard. I don't
mean a bomb. I would
just like to finish one
X-Box game. I mean, I
think the goal is to
Pressing and key to goal
Level two. I mean, I
mean your life will be
complete. Yeah. I know. I
mean, I think the goal
is to not have to
work and then I might
go and teach, you know,
we always talked about me
teaching high school. Right. You
know, maybe talk about traveling
too, right? Yeah. And then
I'll teach high school, wherever
that is, you know? Right.
Or run around, run around
the world, get one of
those around the world. Tickets
where as long as you
keep East, right. You can
just kind of like go,
you continue. You know? I
don't know, like the point
is to not have to
wake up on a random
Tuesday. Yeah. That would be
cool. I mean, I might
still do the podcast and
because I can't stop now.
Right. That's right. I've gotta
be your 800. I need
you for episode 1000, in
fact, which is coming up
pretty soon here in about
seven years. Oh gosh. But,
but I guess when you
should probably figure that out.
Yeah. And that's been a
theme though, in our marriage
since the beginning, if you
recall, when we got married
and we did our vows,
we also wrote a mission
statement and some people thought
that was kind of a
nerdy thing to do, but
I always thought that was
pretty cool because people put
all this work into a
wedding, but how often do
they sit down and ask
themselves the hard questions about,
you know, Oh, you're a
cat person. Like I would
hate to discover that the
day after, or like, you
know, you didn't like tacos
or something. Oh, I mean,
we could, we could cobble
on without tacos, but I
think that Coke probably, I
think diet Coke would be
a deal breaker for you.
I mean, you leave me
and the kids. If I,
If you were an anti
diet Coke zealot, I'm not
sure how we would function.
But the point was that
intentionality seemed to be permeating
us. Were you intentional before
we got married? Is that
like a Mo thing? A
Mo ism. I taught you
intentionality. I brought intentionality. I
intentionally did it Take full
credit? So no Brings up
an important point. We married
ourselves, Jessica bad. I don't
know, man. I didn't know
better. I think we've been
married awhile. No, but like
that's true though. Right? Isn't
that annoying? Just so mean.
Not at all where I
thought you were going at
that point, but yeah. I
mean, I think it's true
and I always tell people,
it's like, I'm married myself,
which is awesome. Like, you
know, 62% of the time,
you know? And then the
rest of the time, it's
like, Oh my God, I
married myself. I mean, Mary
yourself, no. When we say
Mary yourself, like what we
mean by that is that
we do The way you
think for the most part,
the, the how you, how
you get there is different.
I don't, I'm not an
engineer. I'm not a programmer.
So my brain doesn't work
the way yours does. But
I mean, on the things
that matter, we almost always
end up at the same
point, whether it's the boys
and doing homework, whether it's
limiting their screen time, whether
it's what, you know, the
importance of family and our
lives, et cetera, Manage our
finances. Exactly. Once exactly where
we want to go for
vacation, We always end up
at the, at the same
place. It's just, you meander,
you just meander. I mean,
you just are all over
the place as to how
to get there, how to
execute the plan, but you
get there. So what do
you mean by that? I
didn't know where you meander,
how That's the spin of
the last 20 years sort
of, you know, massaging you
in the right direction to
this presentable person that people
see now. Oh my goodness.
Yeah. Awesome. Let's talk about
the things that we don't
do the same. That I
would say the two things,
maybe two and a half,
depending on how you count
them. That are the most
annoying about our marriage. Now
I was two and a
Half. Yeah. I didn't see
you. I didn't say the
most annoying things about you.
I appreciate that. Thank you.
The most important thing about
our marriage is a getting
out of the house in
the morning. Like if we're
trying to go somewhere, like,
like on time, you mean
like I put like, well,
yeah. I mean, I put
on my pants and I
leave and the boys and
I are in the car
and it's like, let's go
and you're, I don't know,
cleaning the dishwashers, just doing
something that has nothing to
do. I am totally for
the family, for the children.
We'll be there when we
get back. The second thing.
So one leaving on time,
she know I've forgotten. Number
two at all, maps maps.
Like you just, you don't
believe in maps. Like we
were, we were at the
beach a couple of weeks
ago or whatever. And it
was like, I was trying
to explain the map and
it was like, well, it's
like the we're going to
go this way. The hypotony
news. And you're like, no,
we'll go down and then
we'll go over. I'm like,
no, but the hypotony is
just, it's faster. And you're
like, no, it's not, no,
it's not. Of course you
were right. But that's not
the point. The man, you
remember, we ended up on
a dirt road. It was
so dumb, Dude, you lost
me after you were. Right.
You know, at that point,
You know, I dunno. I
just, yeah, I follow maps
is all I'm saying Hi,
I am not anti map.
I mean, I think maps
are purposely for the rest
of the world. They are
useful thing to have. They
provide a very limited value
for me. And the reason
why is because I don't
always understand maps, right? In
order for somebody to provide
value, you must have an
appreciation and an understanding of
what you're looking at. Right.
You know, if I don't
speak Greek and you put
a whole bunch of, you
know, a Greek book in
front of me, I'm not
going to get a whole
lot out of it. And
that's that's maps for me.
It's like, it's like magic.
You know, I could learn
Greek. I could, you don't
care to learn there. You
have it. You know, that's
a good thing. It's one
thing to be ignorant. And
I don't mean anger in
a bad way. It's Because
ignorant, ignorant in a nice
way back days ago,
of maps. I don't know.
I just seems like you
could learn it. Like I
think maps provide value. They
do. But there are many
other things that I could
learn that are important to
me that I care about.
What do you call it
a long way? Because to
me it's not the long
way. Right. You know? But
listen, it's the long way
to you because of something
else that you value. So
you might value getting to
where you're going. For me,
it's the process, right? What
am I doing that on
that drive drywall. I may
be talking to you. I
mean, are you talking to
my other son or to
my son? I may be
talking to my sister or
whatever the case may be.
Right? So it's not as
necessary for me to go
from point a to point
B directly. I will take
the way that I think
is fastest. But if you
tell me that there's another
way, that's even faster. If
I go the hypotony news.
Well, great. You got hypothenuse,
I'll go by the way.
The part that's so funny
is that the goal is
almost always, you know, for
the market bear to get
there safely and whatever, right.
I'm following the fastest direction.
You know, you don't want
to be in traffic. Nobody
wants nobody likes stoplights. Yeah.
And then I'll go, Hey,
we should go this way.
It's faster. And you'll be
like, well, good luck with
that. Like enjoy that way.
I'm not going that way.
I'm like, this is faster.
And you go, if you
say so, it's like, you're
trolling me. It's like you
say, if you say something
like, no, it's not. If
I say so if, if
physics itself says that that
direction is faster, it's faster.
Except of course, when I
get it wrong and it's
like, but that's neither here
nor there. And you point
to a map and you
say, the map says, it's
go this way. And we
go there and we end
up in somebody's backyard because
We would have varied. Or
it was like a bridge
was down. Remember that one
with a GPS took us
right up to the end
of the Lake. And there
was no ferry. There, There
was no fear in, there
was another time it took
us right up to somebody's
yard because I guess they'd
built a house. And this
poor guy actually let us
drive as a property. I'm
like, let's hear from abs.
You know, I believe at
that point, I said, I
stand corrected because, So this
is the other thing that
you do. This has become
a thing. Everyone's got their
shorthand. Every relationship has their
shorthand. And I think that
those things are important when
you're right. This is a
lovely thing that my wife
does when you are correct.
And I am wrong rather
than saying, Hey, screw you
or pay for, get you
or whatever, naughty thing you
could say, you say, Oh,
well, I stand corrected, which
is the exact opposite of
what in fact happened. So
I stand corrected is the,
is the, the antithesis of
what is wrong on you?
Idiot. That's what you're thinking.
But you say it in
a really sweet way. And
you're like, well, pardon me?
That's right. Clearly the map
was right. I don't know.
I just feel like maps
report, but getting out the
door on time as well.
I mean, come on. Yeah,
it is. It is. I
mean, but again, what am
I doing instead of getting
out on time for you,
it just becomes a matter
of you're disrespecting the process.
You're disrespecting us leaving, you
know? Well, you know, I
mean, I'm looking at those
dishes. They're not going to
clean themselves. And if I,
if I may and you
say to me, they'll be
there when we get back,
that's the problem. They'll still
be sitting there. Philby when
we get back, Either front
load, the work or back
load, the work, like if
we're leaving for a week,
I can see we're doing
the dishes. That's a good
idea. But if we're leaving
for lunch, then didn't really,
let's like, let's go, Just
leave them there. Let's just
live in that field like
dishes or just the nickname
and the chromic weight of
the knowing that knowing that
you left your dishes, that
doesn't bother you, That dishes
have a weight on your
car, That laundry on our
soul. Can we enjoy lunch
knowing that our laundry is
not being done? No soul
weight. The answer to that
is no laundry. So anyway,
I just want to go
on time. Just one day
in 20 years, I want
to go somewhere on time.
We've been doing a lot
of family events lately, which
is pretty cool. The boys
signed up for, for TaeKwonDo.
Yeah. Korean martial art. And
the first couple of days,
we sat there with the
other parents,  parents and
watched them and checked our
email. And I felt kind
of dumb sitting there checking
my email. So then we
jumped in and now we
are working on our blue
belts in TaeKwonDo and the
other parents are still sitting
there on their phone. Right.
Great. I didn't think that
you were going to go
for it, but you're actually
doing, turning out really well
at this. Does that surprise
you? Well, I, again, I
think you're being, you're glowing.
I am doing, you thought
you were going to do
it. That is true. And
I went through sort of
a love, hate relationship with
the TaeKwonDo. Hope because it's,
it's hard to realize just
how old you are. And
I'm not saying that no,
no, you're not. No one
is because you always think
that you're young at heart
and that you are flexible.
And then all of a
sudden, somebody says, give me
20 pushups and you get
stuck after two. And does
that go Kick me in
the head? And you're like,
yeah. You know, kicking the
knee. Yeah. Cause he's standing
there holding his arm up
above his head. It's like
kick my hand. And it's
like, okay. So that's not
going to happen. How about
the compromise? And I just
definitely, I used to kill
the ankle, you know,
mid to late forties, more
than ever before. Yeah. But
the, one of the key
things that made me want
to do this was, you
know, boys are, boys are
boys and they enjoy a
lot of the boyish things,
the race, car games and
all this stuff and cooking
stuff, which isn't my thing.
Again, I was kind of
lamenting saying, I don't have
a daughter, but I realized
that if I don't, if
I want to be close
to them, okay, I need
to speak their language. And
I want, I need to
get into the things that
they enjoy so we can
maintain the closings that we
have now. And so I'm
not really a video gamer,
never really going to be
my thing. But I thought
to myself, well, they're going
to be doing this twice
a week. There's this TaeKwonDo.
So that is something I
can get into. And it
was a stretch, you know,
but was for the children.
Yeah. Well, and so like
one thing that people may
notice about as we've had
this conversation over the last
half hour, you made a
number of comments about as
a woman or a daughter
or two boys, you know,
there's some gender role things
coming from Zimbabwe that maybe
run a little differently than
some of the gender roles.
Cause I'm pretty clear on
the boys. Should you be
able to do whatever they
want to do? Regardless of
generals, ironically enough, we get
into TaeKwonDo. Like 60% of
the class is women. And
one of the grandmasters is
a woman. And now we've
got a bunch of, a
bunch of women in the,
in the TaeKwonDo class. And
again, the Grandmaster is one
of the grandmasters as a
married, as a married couple
as a man or woman,
she actually mentioned how nice
it was to have you
in the class. So TaeKwonDo
is ending up to be
kind of a nice mix
of men and women in
that class. I mean, I,
I would disagree that it's
60% women. I think what,
what you're trying to say
is girls. Yeah. There's no
women, women as an adult.
Yeah. Yeah. Appointment point is
what you thought. You'd be
the lone woman in a
TaeKwonDo class of boys kicking
stuff, To be clear. I'm
one of two women and,
and young women who are
in their teens, teens. Right,
right. It is at the
very least 50 50. So
here we are mincing words.
It's like 60% girls in
the class, women girls. Well,
I don't know. No, it
would count the number of
kids in the class now
and have this argument 5%.
Yeah. It's not an argument.
I'm just, I'm surprised that
you think it's that many
because it's definitely very male
the classes. And I think
really, absolutely. What does that
mean to me always. I
mean, males in non females,
none. None. Yeah. No, absolutely.
We in the same class,
I mean, what are you
seeing? Where are you going
to school? But, but what
I think we can both
agree on, again, being people
that could sort of end
at the same conclusion is
that there's not a lot
of adults. There you are
the only adult male, for
instance, that's not a black
belt or a teacher. No,
that is a funny thing
actually, because we ended up
at the, at the wrong
end. I should've joined three
years before because in the
advanced class, it's all black,
you know, there's a ton
of black belts. So there's
a bunch of people in
there. 25, 30, 30, five
older people that are yeah.
All the black belts, all
the people who are my
age are they're all black
belts. And when I went
up to the tournament in
Washington, where I got the
heavyweight championship for free pills,
he said that Friday, I
was like, what do you
mean? We have a weight
champion. That's not nice. Oh
my bad. But I know
it doesn't show what you
meant by here. I'm literally
a heavyweight in this class.
I'm a buck 90. So
I'm just saying that, that
put me in the heavyweight
class, My friend, she had
a little more time, Hey,
I'm working on it. My
point is that I won
the heavyweight weight class for
seniors. So now I'm a
heavyweight senior. This is not
an inclusive podcast at this
point. You're not helping me.
Right. The point I'm making
is that when I went
up to, up into Seattle,
it was all, you know,
lots and lots of men
involved, stuff like that. So
yes, you're right at the
cycle that we are in,
in the particular class that
we're in, it's mostly teens
and not in six year
olds. And yeah, there's a
couple Cool continue to, to
kick my behind The point
is that was a weird,
random off into space. They
would take window. The point
was though, is that here
was a thing that we
thought would be a traditionally
boys, breaking boards, kind of
a thing. And it ended
up to be quite a
nice group of people. And
now I'm visualizing, like every
time we go, I'm visualizing
that family black belt are
we all gonna get black
belts? And, and I noticed
actually, when I went upstairs
in the guestroom, I didn't
realize this. You had actually
hung up all of our
certificates and our awards from
that. And in the kitchen
here, we've got all of
our various awards and the
little boy, our youngest son
got a couple of awards.
Yeah. And then our oldest
boy got a sparring award.
So they're starting to get
that idea. This is their
first real organized sport where
they, it is on them
to go and achieve or
not achieve You do as
well as you apply yourself.
Right. Can you come back
with something or you don't,
or you don't care either
way you try it. Right.
You know, so I like
that idea of saying, put
effort into it and hopefully
your effort pays off. And
sometimes it will. And sometimes
it won't, but you're showing
up and you're trying, you
know, like a marriage, like
a marriage, we turned it
all the way. That's right.
I walked you right to
it. You walk me. But
That was a call back.
I did that. That's right.
Well, thank you. A tiny
wife for hanging out with
me on my 700th episode
of Hansel minutes podcast named
after us and my poor
estimating skills Hansel hour. Did
you know that? That's why
Hanselman as it's called then
Is cause you've got a
good, yeah, Because I'm a
bad estimator. Nope. True story.
If you, if you're here
now listening to the 700
episode of Hansel minutes and
you may wonder why is
this show called Hanselman is
because a gentleman that I
worked with who you can
find on Twitter named Travis
Illig remember Travis, Travis. So
when I worked with him
at a Kirlian before Microsoft
many, many years ago, I
used to say, Oh yeah,
I could do that in
about 30 minutes. And he
would look at me incredulously
and he would say, are
those Hansel minutes or actual
minutes? Because I would say
30 minutes. And we ended
up being like six hours.
So, so then when the
podcast idea came out, I
said that we'll call it
Hanselman. It's after my bad
estimating, because the show is
supposed to be 30 minutes
long. And here we are
at 34. Oh wow. But
perfect. And then I, this
is the part where I
do the radio voice. Oh,
I love them anyways. Sure.
And I do that. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again next week and
you do that. Oh, I
say that you're on your
own. You're not gonna do
that. Kind of a deep
voice. It's pretty weak. You
got to do the radio
voice radio. Alright. We'll see
you all later. Okay.